[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
louise minchin and dan walker our
headlines for you this morning
the buyer boozer budget hundreds of
millions of pounds to help save local
pubs
sports clubs and theaters will be
announced by the chancellor tomorrow
the chancellor could also extend the
stamp duty holiday
and launch a loan guarantee scheme but
critics question whether it helps
first-time buyers
or just the big banks keep following the
rules the cautious message from health
bosses as new research shows vaccines
dramatically reduce the chances of
becoming seriously ill
a change of hospital for the duke of
edinburgh but the queen carries on with
official duties
as she performs her first remote
unveiling of a statue
three-time grand national winning
trainer gordon elliott is suspended from
racing in britain
while he is investigated over a picture
showing him sitting on a dead horse
i love you
i love you so much the agonising wait to
visit loved ones in care homes there are
changes to the guidelines in england on
monday some campaigners tell us they
don't go
far enough good morning rather like
yesterday we're starting off in a cloudy
misty
foggy note the brightest skies today
will be out towards the west
and like yesterday some of that cloud
will stick for much of the day
i'll have all the details throughout
this morning's programme
hello very good morning to you it's
tuesday the 2nd of march our top story
communities could be given
up to a quarter of a million pounds to
take over struggling pubs
in their area under plans expected to be
announced in the budget
tomorrow the chancellor will unveil a
community ownership fund which is also
expected to cover sports clubs theaters
and other venues at risk of closure
here's more from our political
correspondent chris mason
how do you save your local pub many were
already closing permanently before the
pandemic
how many more might follow now we're out
of the habit of propping up the bar
in the budget tomorrow the chancellor
will announce that community groups
across the uk
could be given up to a quarter of a
million pounds to help
take over struggling pubs there'll be
help too
to buy into theaters and sports clubs
rishi tsunak will also say he'll spend
300 million pounds of taxpayers money to
help
summer sports such as tennis horse
racing
and cricket the pandemic means the
chancellor has borrowed vast amounts
built up a giant pile of debt and faces
a huge political question
should taxes go up to pay for it all
the former conservative chancellor lord
clark said yes they should
the other day now the former tory leader
lord hague
has said the same in this morning's
daily telegraph
rishi sunaka said he will level with
people
about the challenges we face tomorrow
we'll find out exactly what he means by
that
chris mason bbc news at westminster
well there is fresh evidence that the
vaccine rollout is having a big effect
on the number of people taken into
hospital with admissions down by 80
percent for those aged
over 80 after a single dose despite the
positive signs doctors are urging
everyone to remain
cautious and continue to follow
restrictions vishala sripatma reports
the speedy rollout of the vaccine across
the uk has meant
20 million people have had a jab in
their arm over the last few months
and new evidence suggests it's having a
significant
impact public health england data shows
a single shot of either the astrazeneca
oxford or the pfizer
cuts the risk of needing hospital
treatment for covert by up to 80
for those over the age of 80. 5455 new
infections were recorded in the last 24
hours
which the lowest figure since september
and 14
808 people with covet in hospital
a significant drop from even just a few
weeks ago
this all suggests that the vaccines
offer strong protection
some believe this could help ease
restrictions earlier than planned
according to government policy they can
only shift into the future
we can only delay if the initial results
of
each phase of relaxation are
disappointing uh
but i believe we should equally allow
them to be advanced
if the early success with the vaccine
continues to outpace the assumptions
which
uh sensibly made it's wise to be
cautious
about if things turn out to be better
than expected
it's sensible to take that in allow
yourself to take that into account when
that happens
but the message from the medical experts
is not to get ahead of ourselves it
gives us those first glimpses
of how if we are patient and we give
this vaccine program time to have its
full effect
it is going to hopefully take us into a
very different world
in the next few months but we have to be
patient
we have to push on with the vaccine
program
there's concern that the success of the
vaccine may be undermined by new
variants
with several new cases of the brazilian
strand now identified here in the uk
suppressing new variants will be easier
if cases are kept low
and vaccine take-up continues to be high
health officials are keen that people
still remain vigilant
vashallah sri pathmer bbc news
france has changed its mind and will
allow the oxford astrazeneca vaccine to
be given to people
aged between 65 and 74. health officials
had
previously restricted the jab to younger
age groups because of what they claimed
was a lack of trial data
the duke of edinburgh will remain in
hospital until at least the end of this
week to be treated for an infection and
a pre-existing heart condition
prince philip was transferred to
bartholomew's yesterday after spending
13 days at another hospital in london
let's get the latest from our
correspondent tom simons who's there for
us now
morning to you um can you give us any
update on how he's doing
well good morning luis yes in a word
comfortable we are told
his condition uh is being looked at by
doctors here
as you say he has an infection and he is
being
tested and observed by doctors in
connection with
a previous heart condition more on that
in the moment but this is
starting to be his longest stay in
hospital
he came here from king edward the
seventh hospital yesterday over
in west to the west of us in the west
end and he's here now at bart's and
bartholomew's
on the edge of the city of london one of
the nation's leading
heart care hospitals here there are
surgeons and facilities on standby for
really
whatever he should need specifically for
a heart condition
and we are told that uh he has been
visited by
the uh by prince charles and by the duke
of cambridge
not so far the queen but she has
appeared
uh in public in the last 12 hours via a
zoom call that was released by the
palace so she
did a call with the governor and the
premier of south australia
the reason a statue had been uh
installed outside government house
and she joked with the governor and the
premier that
this might be quite alarming for
somebody looking out of the window they
might see the queen
as though she had arrived unexpectedly
so the queen
in good humor joking there no obvious
signs of concerns
and the duke himself well he has a
pretty good medical history over his
life he has been
very healthy only really in the last 10
years have we seen
serious stays in hospital most notably
in connection with this incident in 2011
when after suffering chest pains he was
admitted to papworth hospital
in cambridgeshire and he had some
treatment there for that
uh he had a stent put in a balloon uh
inserted into an artery a metal sleeve
added
uh to keep the archery open uh and so
there are obvious parallels with being
here at bart's now and
clearly the uh the pre-existing heart
condition is likely to
be related to that since then he's done
pretty well really he has
had a hit replaced as many people his
age have
he was in a very serious car accident in
uh very widely reported and
on the estate in sandringham and managed
to escape that
with just cuts and bruises so i think
that everybody here
will be hoping that he gets on well and
of course the palace will be guarding
his
uh privacy his medical privacy very
closely
as the days go on tom simon said thank
[Music]
you
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news